# Carbon Aware KEDA Operator

This repo provides a Kubernetes operator that aims to reduce carbon emissions by scaling Kubernetes workloads based on carbon intensity. 

The carbon aware KEDA operator is a Kubernetes operator that allows Kubernetes admins to leverage carbon intensity data from third-party sources for carbon-aware scaling, without requiring workload code change. 

Carbon aware applications are applications that have been specifically designed to reduce the carbon emissions generated by their use. By considering the carbon intensity of the energy sources they use, they can adjust their energy consumption to be more efficient and reduce their emissions2. 


## How it works

1. Getting the carbon intensity data: 

The carbon aware KEDA operator retrieves the carbon intensity data from the carbon aware SDK, which is a wrapper for electricity data APIs.  
 
The operator retrieves 24-hour carbon intensity forecast data every 12 hours1. Upon successful data pull, the old configmap will be deleted and a new configmap with the same name will be created1.  
 
Any other Kubernetes operator can read the configmap for utilizing the carbon intensity data1. 

 

2. Making carbon aware scaling decisions 

## Current carbon aware scaling logic 


## Use cases 
 
Low priority and time tolerant batch jobs 

CICD runners 

Turning off low priority workloads during high carbon intensity is high 

## Installation





# TODO: As the maintainer of this project, please make a few updates:

- Improving this README.MD file to provide a great experience
- Updating SUPPORT.MD with content about this project's support experience
- Understanding the security reporting process in SECURITY.MD
- Remove this section from the README

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft 
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow 
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.
